#Church Constitution
>By David Guenther, under a GPL liscense
 

Purpose
=======

The church is a community for a group of believers who live in close
proximity to each other. The ultimate goal of the church is provide the
framework necessary for meaningful discipleship to take place. The
church collectively seeks to grow individuals spiritually though a connection to God (the Word being a key component), provide
emotional/mental help to those who need it, and physical help to those
who need it as well.

The Church is the representation of Christ on earth. While the church
has often gone astray from her Lord and Maker, she nevertheless remains
loved by God. We hold a commitment to the church, but it is even more
then that, for we are the church. We hold a commitment to ourselves to
be in community with other believers. We believe in being in community
with other believers, and we make it our focus to continue that.

In all of our efforts for spiritual growth, the church must be involved.
We cannot raise up students who love God, if they have no learned to
love God, if they have not learned to love the Bride of Christ. We
cannot raise up good kids in our homes, if they have not learned to love
God with all of their heart. We may discipline them, but if they do not
have Christ, we have given them nothing.

Everything hangs on the church, for it is responsible for keeping the
faith.

The Rock of the Church is her husband, Christ Jesus our Lord. As such,

-   From Him:

    -   What He says [Word of God] (listening to and responding to what
        God has said)

    -   What He has given us

        -   [Fruit of the Spirit] (love, joy, peace, etc, lived out in
            each member)

        -   [Gifts of the Spirit] (teaching, evangelism,
            encouragement…etc)

        -   His Son, and through Him, right relationship with God

-   Our Response

    -   Our remembrance of Him [communion] (eating together to
        commemorate what Christ has done)

    -   Our public declaration of our allegiance to Him [Baptism]

    -   Our Relationship to Him

        -   Our Obedience to Him

        -   Our Worship of Him

        -   Our Prayer to Him

If any of these aspects are ignored, the church suffers

Roles
=====

Apostles
--------

Apostles serve to establish new churches, but going out and proclaiming
the truth where no one has yet heard the Gospel. An Apostle views these
new churches as new-born children, continuing to care for them until
they reach a maturity in the faith.

Prophets
--------

Prophets serve to reveal the thoughts of God to the church. Their words
must be tested by other prophets, as a safe-guard against heresy.

Evangelists
-----------

Evangelists serve to bring the Gospel to people in the same location as
their church. Once a person has committed their life to the Lord, the
evangelist can provide the necessary connection to an church to help
this new believer continue to grow as a Christian.

Elders
------

Elders serve to guide and protect the people who belong to the church.
As this is a role which has much influence over others, strict
guidelines, as outlined in the NT, must be followed without compromise
(1 Tim 3, Titus 1).

Teachers
--------

Teachers serve to accurately teach the Word of God.

Deacons
-------

Deacons serve to serve, helping the church practically so that others
can focus on their ministries.

Priests
-------

Everyone is considered a priest, and as such, have access to God. No one
has exclusive access to God, and cannot specific y how another comes to
God. Also, each individual has something to contribute to the body of
Christ. (1 Peter 2:9, 1 Cor 12:12)

Meetings
========

Core Groups
-----------

The church meets together in core groups regularly to disciple each
other. These groups range from 1 to 12 people. Meeting informally, for
the purpose of discipleship, fellowship, and life. Core Groups meet at a minimum daily, and are ideally people all residing in the same location.

Mantle Groups
-------------

The church meets together in mantle groups regularly to encourage each
other. These groups consist of no more then 60 people, consisting of 5
or more core groups, composed of elders, teachers, prophets,
encouragers, songs, etc. (1 Cor 11:33, 12:26, Hebrews 3:13, 10:24, 25).
It is in this group that communion, baptism, encouragement, teaching,
prophecies, and praying happens. Mantle Groups meet at a minimum once a week, immediately following the crust group.

Crust Group
-----------

The church meets together in crust groups to keep the unity of the
church. This group consists of up to 24 groups of 60 people. It is in
this group that singing corporately happens, teaching from the various
teachers dispersed throughout the mantle groups, prophecies, and
missions/ministry focus. Crust groups meet at a minimum once a month.

Serving
=======

Ministries
----------

The church participates in various ministries, from serving the church,
to serving the community, being equipped by the APEET; doing the work
laid out before them. (Ephesians 2:10, 4:11–12, 1 Corinthians 12:27–31,
1 Peter 4:10). Ministries range across all groups, allowing those called
to participate.

Missions
--------

The church also sends out apostles to create new assemblies in other
locations. Also giving help to other assemblies that may be struggling.
(Romans 10:15, 1 Corinthians 16:1–4, John 17:20–23, Proverbs 27:10).

Procedures
==========

Called to Ministry, Missions
----------------------------

Those who feel called, or others see as serving in a certain role, will
be first mentioned in the core groups. Once the core group affirms the
direction informally, it is brought to the Mantle group, which votes
unanimously on the person in the new role. If someone does not vote yes,
it is then an opportunity to provide constructive criticism on where
they could serve, or steps needed before they can serve. Once this
decision has been made, the person is commissioned at the crust group,
having hands laid upon them by the elders, and then prayed for by the
entire assembly. All members in ministry are considered deacons, all
members in missions are considered apostles.

Updates
-------

For those serving in various capacities, a monthly report must be given,
and if not in person, read to the entire crust assembly.

Stepping down
-------------

If the a member serving feels this is no longer a direction for them,
they will mention this in their monthly report. At this point, the
congregation will pray for someone to rise up to fill their place. This
replacing will follow the normal procedure.

Definitions
===========

Trinity
-------

God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit are 3-in-one, yet
each part is distinct.

God
---

The almighty Father

Jesus
-----

Jesus is our only way to God, and we cannot on our own merit gain
entrance to the King of Kings without first accepting Jesus as the Son
of God, and making him Lord and Savior of our Life.

Holy Spirit
-----------

The Holy Spirit indwells every believer who confesses that Jesus Christ
is Lord, and through the Spirit God grants different gifts to the
members of his body, so that all might be built up.

Bible
-----

The Bible is the basis for truth, and anything added to it or taken away
from it weakens the body of Christ. Add preaching must be from the
Bible.

Sin
---

Man is inherently sinful and doomed to destruction. It is the grace of
God that saves man. Without believing in Christ, we cannot be saved. If
is not by our own righteousness that we can be saved. No amount of rules
and regulations can make us right with God, for we are all sinners at
heart. A true belief in Christ entails repentance and and change of
heart.

Church
------

The church is a group of believers who have been called out of the world
to meet together. A church is defined by the following 4
characteristics: **Believers** who meet **regularly** together for the
**purpose** of spiritual growth **belonging** to a permanent location.
The people of an church continue to be an church even when they are not
formally meeting together. In all circumstances, it is ideal for
believers living in the same general location to consider themselves
once church
